# Project Description

This project is focused on the comprehensive analysis of a maximum likelihood (ML) mapmaking algorithm, which is instrumental in generating high-fidelity maps of the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB). Using simulations of the CMB sky (self-created or other well-known simulations), we emulate observations by a millimeter/sub-millimeter telescope, thereby generating a simulated Time-Ordered Data (TOD). Different types of noises are added to the signal to emulate Earth's atmosphere. This simulated TOD is subsequently utilized to construct an ML map. We evaluate the mapmaker's efficacy in noise removal and its capability to preserve the integrity of the cosmological signal. Furthermore, the investigation extends to assessing the impact of simulation resolution and mapping parameters (angular size of the CMB patch) on the fidelity of the resultant ML maps. Through the analysis of the angular power spectrum calculated from these ML maps and the mock CMB sky, we scrutinize the potential biases and systematic errors introduced during the mapmaking process. This study not only enhances our understanding of the ML mapmaking algorithm's performance in the context of CMB observations but also provides critical insights into optimizing observational strategies and data analysis techniques for future CMB missions. The mapmaker algorithm is based on the code given by Naess & Louis (2023). We modify their source code to our suit our use case and then apply different methods to test and understand ML maps.


# Script Description
for help with the arguments to run a script, use "python3 script.py -h".

1. simul.py : Using this script one can simulate a mock CMB sky (as described by Naess and Louis) and produce a ML solution of it. It also produces a binned map of the same mock CMB sky. In addition, it produces two noise maps (noise parameters can be can be passed as arguments while running the script) using both methods (Binned and ML).

2. noise_analysis.py : This script allows you to perform a signal and noise analysis by calculating the power spectral density (PSD) of a mock CMB sky signal and a noise signal that is generated using the noise parameters that one inputs. The CMB sky could be simulated in exactly the same way as the simulation in Naess & Louis (2023) or a realistic CMB sky can be generated using a power spectrum from CAMB, etc. (If one wants to use a different power spectrum i.e. from sources other than CAMB then few modifications to the script may be required.)

3. map_gen.py : A map generator tool to create smoothed CMB maps using the PySM3 package. R.A. and Dec. of a source can be passed as an argument along with a set of other parameters like map size, frequency of the map (GHz) and the emission model (https://pysm3.readthedocs.io/en/latest/models.html) used.

4. analysisPS.py : This script calculates the power spectrum of a CMB map and the noise-added ML solutions. The script can also perform a power spectrum comparison analysis of multiple maps (max 3). This can be used to verify the effect of resolution and noise on the ML solutions of a CMB map.

5. solver.py : The solver.py script is a Python module that acts as a black box. It contains a class named MLsolver which can be initialized with a Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) map and certain noise parameters. Once an instance of MLsolver is created, its methods can be used to perform various operations such as signal and noise analysis, solving for a Maximum Likelihood (ML) map, and other signal-based analyses. This module is designed to be used by other scripts for performing their analyses.
